docs/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-database-files-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "sys.database_files (Transact-SQL)"
description: sys.database_files (Transact-SQL)
author: rwestMSFT
ms.author: randolphwest
ms.date: 02/26/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: system-objects
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords:
  - "sys.database_files"
  - "sys.database_files_TSQL"
  - "database_files"
  - "database_files_TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "sys.database_files catalog view"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
monikerRange: ">=aps-pdw-2016||=azuresqldb-current||=azure-sqldw-latest||>=sql-server-2016||>=sql-server-linux-2017||=azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# sys.database_files (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [sql-asdb-asdbmi-asa-pdw](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-asdb-asdbmi-asa-pdw.md)]

  Contains a row per file of a database as stored in the database itself. This is a per-database view.  
  
|Column name|Data type|Description|
|-----------------|---------------|-----------------|
| `file_id` |**int**|ID of the file within database.|
| `file_guid` |**uniqueidentifier**|GUID for the file.<br /><br />`NULL` = Database was upgraded from an earlier version of [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] (Valid for SQL Server 2005 and earlier versions).|  
| `type` |**tinyint**|File type:<br /><br />0 = Rows<br />1 = Log<br />2 = FILESTREAM<br />3 = [!INCLUDE [ssInternalOnly](../../includes/ssinternalonly-md.md)]<br />4 = Full-text|  
| `type_desc` |**nvarchar(60)**|Description of the file type:<br /><br />`ROWS`<br />`LOG`<br />`FILESTREAM`<br />`FULLTEXT`|  
| `data_space_id` |**int**|Value can be zero or greater than zero. A value of `0` represents the database log file, and a value greater than zero represents the ID of the filegroup where this data file is stored.|
| `name` |**sysname**|Logical name of the file in the database.|  
| `physical_name` |**nvarchar(260)**|Operating-system file name. If the database is hosted by an availability group [readable secondary replica](../../database-engine/availability-groups/windows/active-secondaries-readable-secondary-replicas-always-on-availability-groups.md), `physical_name` indicates the file location of the primary replica database. For the correct file location of a readable secondary database, query [sys.sysaltfiles](../../relational-databases/system-compatibility-views/sys-sysaltfiles-transact-sql.md).|  
| `state` |**tinyint**|File state:<br /><br />0 = `ONLINE`<br />1 = `RESTORING`<br />2 = `RECOVERING`<br />3 = `RECOVERY_PENDING`<br />4 = `SUSPECT`<br />5 = [!INCLUDE [ssInternalOnly](../../includes/ssinternalonly-md.md)]<br />6 = `OFFLINE`<br />7 = `DEFUNCT`|  
| `state_desc` |**nvarchar(60)**|Description of the file state:<br /><br />`ONLINE`<br />`RESTORING`<br />`RECOVERING`<br />`RECOVERY_PENDING`<br />`SUSPECT`<br />`OFFLINE`<br />`DEFUNCT`<br />For more information, see [File States](../../relational-databases/databases/file-states.md).|  
| `size` |**int**|Current size of the file, in 8-KB pages.<br /><br />0 = Not applicable<br />For a database snapshot, size reflects the maximum space that the snapshot can ever use for the file.<br />For FILESTREAM filegroup containers, size reflects the current used size of the container.|  
| `max_size` |**int**|Maximum file size, in 8-KB pages:<br /><br />0 = No growth is allowed.<br />-1 = File can grow until the disk is full.<br />268435456 = Log file can grow to a maximum size of 2 TB.<br />For FILESTREAM filegroup containers, `max_size` reflects the maximum size of the container.<br />Databases that are upgraded with an unlimited log file size report `-1` for the maximum size of the log file.<br />In Azure SQL Database, the sum of `max_size` values for all data files can be less than the maximum data size for the database. Use `DATABASEPROPERTYEX(DB_NAME(), 'MaxSizeInBytes')` to determine maximum data size.|  
| `growth` |**int**|0 = File is fixed size and will not grow.<br /><br /> Greater than 0 = File will grow automatically.<br />If `is_percent_growth` = 0, growth increment is in units of 8-KB pages, rounded to the nearest 64 KB.<br />If `is_percent_growth` = 1, growth increment is expressed as a whole number percentage.|  
| `is_media_read_only` |**bit**|1 = File is on read-only media.<br /><br />0 = File is on read-write media.|  
| `is_read_only` |**bit**|1 = File is marked read-only.<br /><br />0 = File is marked read/write.|  
| `is_sparse` |**bit**|1 = File is a sparse file.<br /><br />0 = File is not a sparse file.<br />For more information, see [View the Size of the Sparse File of a Database Snapshot (Transact-SQL)](../../relational-databases/databases/view-the-size-of-the-sparse-file-of-a-database-snapshot-transact-sql.md).|  
| `is_percent_growth` |**bit**|1 = Growth of the file is a percentage.<br /><br />0 = Absolute growth size in pages.|  
| `is_name_reserved` |**bit**|1 = Dropped file name (`name` or `physical_name`) is reusable only after the next log backup. When files are dropped from a database, the logical names stay in a reserved state until the next log backup. This column is relevant only under the full recovery model and the bulk-logged recovery model.|  
| `create_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|Log sequence number (LSN) at which the file was created.|  
| `drop_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|LSN at which the file was dropped.<br /><br />0 = The file name is unavailable for reuse.|  
| `read_only_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|LSN at which the filegroup that contains the file changed from read/write to read-only (most recent change).|  
| `read_write_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|LSN at which the filegroup that contains the file changed from read-only to read/write (most recent change).|  
| `differential_base_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|Base for differential backups. Data extents changed after this LSN will be included in a differential backup.|  
| `differential_base_guid` |**uniqueidentifier**|Unique identifier of the base backup on which a differential backup will be based.|  
| `differential_base_time` |**datetime**|Time corresponding to `differential_base_lsn`.|  
| `redo_start_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|LSN at which the next roll forward must start.<br /><br />Is `NULL` unless `state` = `RESTORING` or `state` = `RECOVERY_PENDING`.|  
| `redo_start_fork_guid` |**uniqueidentifier**|Unique identifier of the recovery fork. The `first_fork_guid` of the next log backup restored must match this value. This represents the current state of the file.|  
| `redo_target_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|LSN at which the online roll forward on this file can stop.<br /><br />Is `NULL` unless `state` = `RESTORING` or `state` = `RECOVERY_PENDING`.|  
| `redo_target_fork_guid` |**uniqueidentifier**|The recovery fork on which the file can be recovered. Paired with `redo_target_lsn`.|  
| `backup_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|The LSN of the most recent data or differential backup of the file.|  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  
> When you drop or rebuild large indexes, or drop or truncate large tables, the [!INCLUDE [ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] defers the actual page deallocations, and their associated locks, until after the transaction commits. Deferred drop operations do not release allocated space immediately. Therefore, the values returned by `sys.database_files` immediately after dropping or truncating a large object might not reflect the actual disk space available.  
  
## Permissions

Requires membership in the **public** role. For more information, see [Metadata Visibility Configuration](../../relational-databases/security/metadata-visibility-configuration.md).  

## Examples

The following statement returns the name, file size, and the amount of empty space for each database file.

```sql
SELECT name, size/128.0 FileSizeInMB,
size/128.0 - CAST(FILEPROPERTY(name, 'SpaceUsed') AS int)/128.0 
   AS EmptySpaceInMB
FROM sys.database_files;
```

Find example queries using [!INCLUDE [ssSDS_md](../../includes/sssds-md.md)], in [Manage file space for databases in Azure SQL Database](/azure/azure-sql/database/file-space-manage). You can:

- [Query a single database for storage space information](/azure/azure-sql/database/file-space-manage#query-a-single-database-for-storage-space-information).
- [Query an elastic pool for storage space information](/azure/azure-sql/database/file-space-manage#query-an-elastic-pool-for-storage-space-information).
  
## Related content

- [Databases and Files Catalog Views (Transact-SQL)](databases-and-files-catalog-views-transact-sql.md)
- [File States](../databases/file-states.md)
- [sys.databases (Transact-SQL)](sys-databases-transact-sql.md)
- [sys.master_files (Transact-SQL)](sys-master-files-transact-sql.md)
- [Database Files and Filegroups](../databases/database-files-and-filegroups.md)
- [sys.data_spaces (Transact-SQL)](sys-data-spaces-transact-sql.md)
- [Manage file space for databases in Azure SQL Database](/azure/azure-sql/database/file-space-manage)
- [Manage file space for databases in Azure SQL Managed Instance](/azure/azure-sql/managed-instance/file-space-manage)

Commit message:

Add is_persistent_log_buffer column

docs/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-database-files-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "sys.database_files (Transact-SQL)"
description: sys.database_files (Transact-SQL)
author: rwestMSFT
ms.author: randolphwest
ms.date: 11/25/2024
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: system-objects
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords:
  - "sys.database_files"
  - "sys.database_files_TSQL"
  - "database_files"
  - "database_files_TSQL"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "sys.database_files catalog view"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
monikerRange: ">=aps-pdw-2016||=azuresqldb-current||=azure-sqldw-latest||>=sql-server-2016||>=sql-server-linux-2017||=azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# sys.database_files (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [sql-asdb-asdbmi-asa-pdw](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-asdb-asdbmi-asa-pdw.md)]

  Contains a row per file of a database as stored in the database itself. This is a per-database view.  
  
|Column name|Data type|Description|
|-----------------|---------------|-----------------|
| `file_id` |**int**|ID of the file within database.|
| `file_guid` |**uniqueidentifier**|GUID for the file.<br /><br />`NULL` = Database was upgraded from an earlier version of [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] (Valid for SQL Server 2005 and earlier versions).|  
| `type` |**tinyint**|File type:<br /><br />0 = Rows<br />1 = Log<br />2 = FILESTREAM<br />3 = [!INCLUDE [ssInternalOnly](../../includes/ssinternalonly-md.md)]<br />4 = Full-text|  
| `type_desc` |**nvarchar(60)**|Description of the file type:<br /><br />`ROWS`<br />`LOG`<br />`FILESTREAM`<br />`FULLTEXT`|  
| `data_space_id` |**int**|Value can be zero or greater than zero. A value of `0` represents the database log file, and a value greater than zero represents the ID of the filegroup where this data file is stored.|
| `name` |**sysname**|Logical name of the file in the database.|  
| `physical_name` |**nvarchar(260)**|Operating-system file name. If the database is hosted by an availability group [readable secondary replica](../../database-engine/availability-groups/windows/active-secondaries-readable-secondary-replicas-always-on-availability-groups.md), `physical_name` indicates the file location of the primary replica database. For the correct file location of a readable secondary database, query [sys.sysaltfiles](../../relational-databases/system-compatibility-views/sys-sysaltfiles-transact-sql.md).|  
| `state` |**tinyint**|File state:<br /><br />0 = `ONLINE`<br />1 = `RESTORING`<br />2 = `RECOVERING`<br />3 = `RECOVERY_PENDING`<br />4 = `SUSPECT`<br />5 = [!INCLUDE [ssInternalOnly](../../includes/ssinternalonly-md.md)]<br />6 = `OFFLINE`<br />7 = `DEFUNCT`|  
| `state_desc` |**nvarchar(60)**|Description of the file state:<br /><br />`ONLINE`<br />`RESTORING`<br />`RECOVERING`<br />`RECOVERY_PENDING`<br />`SUSPECT`<br />`OFFLINE`<br />`DEFUNCT`<br />For more information, see [File States](../../relational-databases/databases/file-states.md).|  
| `size` |**int**|Current size of the file, in 8-KB pages.<br /><br />0 = Not applicable<br />For a database snapshot, size reflects the maximum space that the snapshot can ever use for the file.<br />For FILESTREAM filegroup containers, size reflects the current used size of the container.|  
| `max_size` |**int**|Maximum file size, in 8-KB pages:<br /><br />0 = No growth is allowed.<br />-1 = File can grow until the disk is full.<br />268435456 = Log file can grow to a maximum size of 2 TB.<br />For FILESTREAM filegroup containers, `max_size` reflects the maximum size of the container.<br />Databases that are upgraded with an unlimited log file size report `-1` for the maximum size of the log file.<br />In Azure SQL Database, the sum of `max_size` values for all data files can be less than the maximum data size for the database. Use `DATABASEPROPERTYEX(DB_NAME(), 'MaxSizeInBytes')` to determine maximum data size.|  
| `growth` |**int**|0 = File is fixed size and will not grow.<br /><br /> Greater than 0 = File will grow automatically.<br />If `is_percent_growth` = 0, growth increment is in units of 8-KB pages, rounded to the nearest 64 KB.<br />If `is_percent_growth` = 1, growth increment is expressed as a whole number percentage.|  
| `is_media_read_only` |**bit**|1 = File is on read-only media.<br /><br />0 = File is on read-write media.|  
| `is_read_only` |**bit**|1 = File is marked read-only.<br /><br />0 = File is marked read/write.|  
| `is_sparse` |**bit**|1 = File is a sparse file.<br /><br />0 = File is not a sparse file.<br />For more information, see [View the Size of the Sparse File of a Database Snapshot (Transact-SQL)](../../relational-databases/databases/view-the-size-of-the-sparse-file-of-a-database-snapshot-transact-sql.md).|  
| `is_percent_growth` |**bit**|1 = Growth of the file is a percentage.<br /><br />0 = Absolute growth size in pages.|  
| `is_name_reserved` |**bit**|1 = Dropped file name (`name` or `physical_name`) is reusable only after the next log backup. When files are dropped from a database, the logical names stay in a reserved state until the next log backup. This column is relevant only under the full recovery model and the bulk-logged recovery model.|  
| `is_persistent_log_buffer` | **bit** | `1` = The log file is a persistent log buffer.<br /><br />`0` = The file is not a persistent log buffer. For more information, see [Add persistent log buffer to a database](../databases/add-persisted-log-buffer.md). |
| `create_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|Log sequence number (LSN) at which the file was created.|  
| `drop_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|LSN at which the file was dropped.<br /><br />0 = The file name is unavailable for reuse.|  
| `read_only_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|LSN at which the filegroup that contains the file changed from read/write to read-only (most recent change).|  
| `read_write_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|LSN at which the filegroup that contains the file changed from read-only to read/write (most recent change).|  
| `differential_base_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|Base for differential backups. Data extents changed after this LSN will be included in a differential backup.|  
| `differential_base_guid` |**uniqueidentifier**|Unique identifier of the base backup on which a differential backup will be based.|  
| `differential_base_time` |**datetime**|Time corresponding to `differential_base_lsn`.|  
| `redo_start_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|LSN at which the next roll forward must start.<br /><br />Is `NULL` unless `state` = `RESTORING` or `state` = `RECOVERY_PENDING`.|  
| `redo_start_fork_guid` |**uniqueidentifier**|Unique identifier of the recovery fork. The `first_fork_guid` of the next log backup restored must match this value. This represents the current state of the file.|  
| `redo_target_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|LSN at which the online roll forward on this file can stop.<br /><br />Is `NULL` unless `state` = `RESTORING` or `state` = `RECOVERY_PENDING`.|  
| `redo_target_fork_guid` |**uniqueidentifier**|The recovery fork on which the file can be recovered. Paired with `redo_target_lsn`.|  
| `backup_lsn` |**numeric(25,0)**|The LSN of the most recent data or differential backup of the file.|  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  
> When you drop or rebuild large indexes, or drop or truncate large tables, the [!INCLUDE [ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] defers the actual page deallocations, and their associated locks, until after the transaction commits. Deferred drop operations do not release allocated space immediately. Therefore, the values returned by `sys.database_files` immediately after dropping or truncating a large object might not reflect the actual disk space available.  
  
## Permissions

Requires membership in the **public** role. For more information, see [Metadata Visibility Configuration](../../relational-databases/security/metadata-visibility-configuration.md).  

## Examples

The following statement returns the name, file size, and the amount of empty space for each database file.

```sql
SELECT name, size/128.0 FileSizeInMB,
size/128.0 - CAST(FILEPROPERTY(name, 'SpaceUsed') AS int)/128.0 
   AS EmptySpaceInMB
FROM sys.database_files;
```

Find example queries using [!INCLUDE [ssSDS_md](../../includes/sssds-md.md)], in [Manage file space for databases in Azure SQL Database](/azure/azure-sql/database/file-space-manage). You can:

- [Query a single database for storage space information](/azure/azure-sql/database/file-space-manage#query-a-single-database-for-storage-space-information).
- [Query an elastic pool for storage space information](/azure/azure-sql/database/file-space-manage#query-an-elastic-pool-for-storage-space-information).
  
## Related content

- [Databases and Files Catalog Views (Transact-SQL)](databases-and-files-catalog-views-transact-sql.md)
- [File States](../databases/file-states.md)
- [sys.databases (Transact-SQL)](sys-databases-transact-sql.md)
- [sys.master_files (Transact-SQL)](sys-master-files-transact-sql.md)
- [Database Files and Filegroups](../databases/database-files-and-filegroups.md)
- [sys.data_spaces (Transact-SQL)](sys-data-spaces-transact-sql.md)
- [Manage file space for databases in Azure SQL Database](/azure/azure-sql/database/file-space-manage)
- [Manage file space for databases in Azure SQL Managed Instance](/azure/azure-sql/managed-instance/file-space-manage)
