docs/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-master-files-transact-sql.md, before:

---
title: "sys.master_files (Transact-SQL)"
description: The sys.master_files system catalog view contains a row per file of a database as stored in the master database.
author: rwestMSFT
ms.author: randolphwest
ms.date: 10/31/2023
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: system-objects
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords:
  - "sys.master_files"
  - "master_files_TSQL"
  - "sys.master_files_TSQL"
  - "master_files"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "sys.master_files catalog view"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
monikerRange: ">=aps-pdw-2016 || >=sql-server-2016 || >=sql-server-linux-2017 || =azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# sys.master_files (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [sql-asdbmi-pdw](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-asdbmi-pdw.md)]

Contains a row per file of a database as stored in the `master` database. `sys.master_files` is a single, system-wide view.

| Column name | Data type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `database_id` | **int** | ID of the database to which this file applies. The `database_id` for the `master` database is always `1`. |
| `file_id` | **int** | ID of the file within database. The primary `file_id` is always `1`. |
| `file_guid` | **uniqueidentifier** | Unique identifier of the file.<br /><br />`NULL` = Database was upgraded from an earlier version of [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] (Valid for [!INCLUDE [ssversion2005-md](../../includes/ssversion2005-md.md)] and earlier versions). |
| `type` | **tinyint** | File type:<br /><br />`0` = Rows<br /><br />`1` = Log<br /><br />`2` = FILESTREAM<br /><br />`3` = [!INCLUDE [ssInternalOnly](../../includes/ssinternalonly-md.md)]<br /><br />`4` = Full-text (Full-text catalogs earlier than [!INCLUDE [sql2008-md](../../includes/sql2008-md.md)]; full-text catalogs that are upgraded to or created in [!INCLUDE [sql2008-md](../../includes/sql2008-md.md)] and later versions report a file type `0`.) |
| `type_desc` | **nvarchar(60)** | Description of the file type:<br /><br />`ROWS`<br />`LOG`<br />`FILESTREAM`<br />`FULLTEXT` (Full-text catalogs earlier than [!INCLUDE [sql2008-md](../../includes/sql2008-md.md)].) |
| `data_space_id` | **int** | ID of the data space to which this file belongs. Data space is a filegroup.<br /><br />`0` = Log files |
| `name` | **sysname** | Logical name of the file in the database. |
| `physical_name` | **nvarchar(260)** | Operating-system file name. |
| `state` | **tinyint** | File state:<br /><br />`0` = `ONLINE`<br /><br />`1` = `RESTORING`<br /><br />`2` = `RECOVERING`<br /><br />`3` = `RECOVERY_PENDING`<br /><br />`4` = `SUSPECT`<br /><br />`5` = [!INCLUDE [ssInternalOnly](../../includes/ssinternalonly-md.md)]<br /><br />`6` = `OFFLINE`<br /><br />`7` = `DEFUNCT` |
| `state_desc` | **nvarchar(60)** | Description of the file state:<br /><br />`ONLINE`<br />`RESTORING`<br />`RECOVERING`<br />`RECOVERY_PENDING`<br />`SUSPECT`<br />`OFFLINE`<br />`DEFUNCT`<br /><br />For more information, see [File States](../databases/file-states.md). |
| `size` | **int** | Current file size, in 8-KB pages. For a database snapshot, size reflects the maximum space that the snapshot can ever use for the file.<br /><br />**Note**: This field is populated as zero for FILESTREAM containers. Query the `sys.database_files` catalog view for the actual size of FILESTREAM containers. |
| `max_size` | **int** | Maximum file size, in 8-KB pages:<br /><br />`-1` = File grows until the disk is full.<br /><br />`268435456` = Log file grows to a maximum size of 2 TB.<br /><br />**Note**: Databases upgraded with an unlimited log file size report `-1` for the maximum size of the log file.<br /><br />**Note**: If `max_size = -1` and `growth = 0`, then no growth is allowed. |
| `growth` | **int** | `0` = File is fixed size and doesn't grow.<br /><br />`> 0` = File grows automatically.<br /><br />If `is_percent_growth = 0`, growth increment is in units of 8-KB pages, rounded to the nearest 64 KB.<br /><br />If `is_percent_growth = 1`, growth increment is expressed as a whole number percentage. |
| `is_media_read_only` | **bit** | `1` = File is on read-only media.<br /><br />`0` = File is on read/write media. |
| `is_read_only` | **bit** | `1` = File is marked read-only.<br /><br />`0` = file is marked read/write. |
| `is_sparse` | **bit** | `1` = File is a sparse file.<br /><br />`0` = File isn't a sparse file.<br /><br />For more information, see [View the Size of the Sparse File of a Database Snapshot (Transact-SQL)](../../relational-databases/databases/view-the-size-of-the-sparse-file-of-a-database-snapshot-transact-sql.md). |
| `is_percent_growth` | **bit** | `1` = Growth of the file is a percentage.<br /><br />`0` = Absolute growth size in pages. |
| `is_name_reserved` | **bit** | `1` = Dropped file name is reusable. A log backup must be taken before the name (`name` or `physical_name`) can be reused for a new file name.<br /><br />`0` = File name is unavailable for reuse. |
| `create_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | Log sequence number (LSN) at which the file was created. |
| `drop_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | LSN at which the file was dropped. |
| `read_only_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | LSN at which the filegroup that contains the file changed from read/write to read-only (most recent change). |
| `read_write_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | LSN at which the filegroup that contains the file changed from read-only to read/write (most recent change). |
| `differential_base_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | Base for differential backups. Data extents changed after this LSN are included in a differential backup. |
| `differential_base_guid` | **uniqueidentifier** | Unique identifier of the base backup on which a differential backup is based. |
| `differential_base_time` | **datetime** | Time corresponding to `differential_base_lsn`. |
| `redo_start_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | LSN at which the next roll forward must start.<br /><br />`NULL` unless `state = RESTORING` or `state = RECOVERY_PENDING`. |
| `redo_start_fork_guid` | **uniqueidentifier** | Unique identifier of the recovery fork. The `first_fork_guid` of the next log backup restored must match this value. This represents the current state of the container. |
| `redo_target_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | LSN at which the online roll forward on this file can stop.<br /><br />`NULL` unless `state = RESTORING` or `state = RECOVERY_PENDING`. |
| `redo_target_fork_guid` | **uniqueidentifier** | The recovery fork on which the container can be recovered. Paired with `redo_target_lsn`. |
| `backup_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | The LSN of the most recent data or differential backup of the file. |
| `credential_id` | **int** | The `credential_id` from `sys.credentials` used for storing the file. For example, when [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] is running on an Azure Virtual Machine and the database files are stored in Azure Blob Storage, a credential is configured with the access credentials to the storage location. |

## Remarks

When you drop or rebuild large indexes, or drop or truncate large tables, the [!INCLUDE [ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] defers the actual page deallocations, and their associated locks, until after the transaction commits. Deferred drop operations don't release allocated space immediately. Therefore, the values returned by `sys.master_files` immediately after dropping or truncating a large object might not reflect the actual disk space available.

For the `tempdb` database, `sys.master_files` shows the initial `tempdb` size. The values are used as a template for `tempdb` creation at startup of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]. `tempdb` growth isn't reflected in this view. To get the current size of `tempdb` files, query `tempdb.sys.database_files` instead.

## Permissions

The minimum permissions that are required to see the corresponding row are `CREATE DATABASE`, `ALTER ANY DATABASE`, or `VIEW ANY DEFINITION`.

## Related content

- [Databases and Files Catalog Views (Transact-SQL)](databases-and-files-catalog-views-transact-sql.md)
- [File States](../databases/file-states.md)
- [sys.databases (Transact-SQL)](sys-databases-transact-sql.md)
- [sys.database_files (Transact-SQL)](sys-database-files-transact-sql.md)
- [Database Files and Filegroups](../databases/database-files-and-filegroups.md)

Commit message:

Add is_persistent_log_buffer column

docs/relational-databases/system-catalog-views/sys-master-files-transact-sql.md, after:

---
title: "sys.master_files (Transact-SQL)"
description: The sys.master_files system catalog view contains a row per file of a database as stored in the master database.
author: rwestMSFT
ms.author: randolphwest
ms.date: 11/25/2023
ms.service: sql
ms.subservice: system-objects
ms.topic: "reference"
f1_keywords:
  - "sys.master_files"
  - "master_files_TSQL"
  - "sys.master_files_TSQL"
  - "master_files"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "sys.master_files catalog view"
dev_langs:
  - "TSQL"
monikerRange: ">=aps-pdw-2016 || >=sql-server-2016 || >=sql-server-linux-2017 || =azuresqldb-mi-current"
---
# sys.master_files (Transact-SQL)

[!INCLUDE [sql-asdbmi-pdw](../../includes/applies-to-version/sql-asdbmi-pdw.md)]

Contains a row per file of a database as stored in the `master` database. `sys.master_files` is a single, system-wide view.

| Column name | Data type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `database_id` | **int** | ID of the database to which this file applies. The `database_id` for the `master` database is always `1`. |
| `file_id` | **int** | ID of the file within database. The primary `file_id` is always `1`. |
| `file_guid` | **uniqueidentifier** | Unique identifier of the file.<br /><br />`NULL` = Database was upgraded from an earlier version of [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] (Valid for [!INCLUDE [ssversion2005-md](../../includes/ssversion2005-md.md)] and earlier versions). |
| `type` | **tinyint** | File type:<br /><br />`0` = Rows<br /><br />`1` = Log<br /><br />`2` = FILESTREAM<br /><br />`3` = [!INCLUDE [ssInternalOnly](../../includes/ssinternalonly-md.md)]<br /><br />`4` = Full-text (Full-text catalogs earlier than [!INCLUDE [sql2008-md](../../includes/sql2008-md.md)]; full-text catalogs that are upgraded to or created in [!INCLUDE [sql2008-md](../../includes/sql2008-md.md)] and later versions report a file type `0`.) |
| `type_desc` | **nvarchar(60)** | Description of the file type:<br /><br />`ROWS`<br />`LOG`<br />`FILESTREAM`<br />`FULLTEXT` (Full-text catalogs earlier than [!INCLUDE [sql2008-md](../../includes/sql2008-md.md)].) |
| `data_space_id` | **int** | ID of the data space to which this file belongs. Data space is a filegroup.<br /><br />`0` = Log files |
| `name` | **sysname** | Logical name of the file in the database. |
| `physical_name` | **nvarchar(260)** | Operating-system file name. |
| `state` | **tinyint** | File state:<br /><br />`0` = `ONLINE`<br /><br />`1` = `RESTORING`<br /><br />`2` = `RECOVERING`<br /><br />`3` = `RECOVERY_PENDING`<br /><br />`4` = `SUSPECT`<br /><br />`5` = [!INCLUDE [ssInternalOnly](../../includes/ssinternalonly-md.md)]<br /><br />`6` = `OFFLINE`<br /><br />`7` = `DEFUNCT` |
| `state_desc` | **nvarchar(60)** | Description of the file state:<br /><br />`ONLINE`<br />`RESTORING`<br />`RECOVERING`<br />`RECOVERY_PENDING`<br />`SUSPECT`<br />`OFFLINE`<br />`DEFUNCT`<br /><br />For more information, see [File States](../databases/file-states.md). |
| `size` | **int** | Current file size, in 8-KB pages. For a database snapshot, size reflects the maximum space that the snapshot can ever use for the file.<br /><br />**Note**: This field is populated as zero for FILESTREAM containers. Query the `sys.database_files` catalog view for the actual size of FILESTREAM containers. |
| `max_size` | **int** | Maximum file size, in 8-KB pages:<br /><br />`-1` = File grows until the disk is full.<br /><br />`268435456` = Log file grows to a maximum size of 2 TB.<br /><br />**Note**: Databases upgraded with an unlimited log file size report `-1` for the maximum size of the log file.<br /><br />**Note**: If `max_size = -1` and `growth = 0`, then no growth is allowed. |
| `growth` | **int** | `0` = File is fixed size and doesn't grow.<br /><br />`> 0` = File grows automatically.<br /><br />If `is_percent_growth = 0`, growth increment is in units of 8-KB pages, rounded to the nearest 64 KB.<br /><br />If `is_percent_growth = 1`, growth increment is expressed as a whole number percentage. |
| `is_media_read_only` | **bit** | `1` = File is on read-only media.<br /><br />`0` = File is on read/write media. |
| `is_read_only` | **bit** | `1` = File is marked read-only.<br /><br />`0` = file is marked read/write. |
| `is_sparse` | **bit** | `1` = File is a sparse file.<br /><br />`0` = File isn't a sparse file.<br /><br />For more information, see [View the Size of the Sparse File of a Database Snapshot (Transact-SQL)](../../relational-databases/databases/view-the-size-of-the-sparse-file-of-a-database-snapshot-transact-sql.md). |
| `is_percent_growth` | **bit** | `1` = Growth of the file is a percentage.<br /><br />`0` = Absolute growth size in pages. |
| `is_name_reserved` | **bit** | `1` = Dropped file name is reusable. A log backup must be taken before the name (`name` or `physical_name`) can be reused for a new file name.<br /><br />`0` = File name is unavailable for reuse. |
| `is_persistent_log_buffer` | **bit** | `1` = The log file is a persistent log buffer.<br /><br />`0` = The file is not a persistent log buffer. For more information, see [Add persistent log buffer to a database](../databases/add-persisted-log-buffer.md). |
| `create_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | Log sequence number (LSN) at which the file was created. |
| `drop_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | LSN at which the file was dropped. |
| `read_only_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | LSN at which the filegroup that contains the file changed from read/write to read-only (most recent change). |
| `read_write_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | LSN at which the filegroup that contains the file changed from read-only to read/write (most recent change). |
| `differential_base_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | Base for differential backups. Data extents changed after this LSN are included in a differential backup. |
| `differential_base_guid` | **uniqueidentifier** | Unique identifier of the base backup on which a differential backup is based. |
| `differential_base_time` | **datetime** | Time corresponding to `differential_base_lsn`. |
| `redo_start_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | LSN at which the next roll forward must start.<br /><br />`NULL` unless `state = RESTORING` or `state = RECOVERY_PENDING`. |
| `redo_start_fork_guid` | **uniqueidentifier** | Unique identifier of the recovery fork. The `first_fork_guid` of the next log backup restored must match this value. This represents the current state of the container. |
| `redo_target_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | LSN at which the online roll forward on this file can stop.<br /><br />`NULL` unless `state = RESTORING` or `state = RECOVERY_PENDING`. |
| `redo_target_fork_guid` | **uniqueidentifier** | The recovery fork on which the container can be recovered. Paired with `redo_target_lsn`. |
| `backup_lsn` | **numeric(25,0)** | The LSN of the most recent data or differential backup of the file. |
| `credential_id` | **int** | The `credential_id` from `sys.credentials` used for storing the file. For example, when [!INCLUDE [ssNoVersion](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)] is running on an Azure Virtual Machine and the database files are stored in Azure Blob Storage, a credential is configured with the access credentials to the storage location. |

## Remarks

When you drop or rebuild large indexes, or drop or truncate large tables, the [!INCLUDE [ssDE](../../includes/ssde-md.md)] defers the actual page deallocations, and their associated locks, until after the transaction commits. Deferred drop operations don't release allocated space immediately. Therefore, the values returned by `sys.master_files` immediately after dropping or truncating a large object might not reflect the actual disk space available.

For the `tempdb` database, `sys.master_files` shows the initial `tempdb` size. The values are used as a template for `tempdb` creation at startup of [!INCLUDE [ssnoversion-md](../../includes/ssnoversion-md.md)]. `tempdb` growth isn't reflected in this view. To get the current size of `tempdb` files, query `tempdb.sys.database_files` instead.

## Permissions

The minimum permissions that are required to see the corresponding row are `CREATE DATABASE`, `ALTER ANY DATABASE`, or `VIEW ANY DEFINITION`.

## Related content

- [Databases and Files Catalog Views (Transact-SQL)](databases-and-files-catalog-views-transact-sql.md)
- [File States](../databases/file-states.md)
- [sys.databases (Transact-SQL)](sys-databases-transact-sql.md)
- [sys.database_files (Transact-SQL)](sys-database-files-transact-sql.md)
- [Database Files and Filegroups](../databases/database-files-and-filegroups.md)
